hello i'm alex from e2 language i'm one
of the expert toefl teachers here and in
this video we're going to work
on toefl integrated writing focusing on
the listening section and i'm going to
show you a
strategy for taking notes toefl
integrated writing note taking for
listening
in this lesson we'll recap the
integrated writing task and i'll tell
you what it is
we'll review the reading notes we made
in the video before if you haven't
watched that already make sure you go
back that's important viewing
we'll listen to a lecture and complete a
note making template
so integrated writing task description
let's just refresh our memory
of what it is remember that there are
three steps in
toefl integrated writing step one is to
read a passage and take notes you have
three minutes to do this
step two you listen to a lecture on the
same topic as the reading
and also take notes around two minutes
for this
and then the task itself you have to
write an integrated summary
and this should take 20 minutes
in this video we're focusing on step two
which is to listen to a lecture on the
same topic as the reading
and take notes so let's do it here are
the notes that we made
based on the reading passage from the
other video
so remember that the main topic of the
passage the overall topic was
climate change and there were three main
ideas one in each paragraph
these were the notes that we made first
one was
rising sea levels and the details we
caught
were this there was always a rise in sea
levels between ice ages
recent rises have been lower than the
historic average
and the sea level rise is lower than
predicted if you remember that reading
text
was a kind of skeptical view of the
impact of climate change
so point two main idea two was related
to wildlife extinction
and the passage said the details were
that there has been no instance of
extinction due to climate change
and the writer gave the example of polar
bears
the writer said people expected them to
go extinct
but actually numbers have risen the
third point was about ocean acidity in
particular
coral bleaching the writer said rumours
were exaggerated
and that coral reefs have survived other
dramatic changes
so in the real test once you've done the
reading and got you've got your notes
next comes the listening so you will
expect that the listening will be on the
same topic
in this case it's going to be about
climate change
and you can also expect that those three
points those three main ideas
are going to be picked up in the
listening again and you're going to
hear either the speaker will support and
agree with those three points made
in the reading passage or
the speaker may cast doubt on them and
say why they're not true those are
usually the two things that happen
to prepare for your listening you should
draw up
on your page a couple of columns just
like this like we did for reading so on
the left you've got a column for the
main ideas
as i said you expect it's going to be
the same main ideas but we're not sure
yet
and on the right a place to write your
details
remember that you'll only hear the
listening once so
taking notes here is absolutely
essential unless you have an
unbelievable memory
so once the listening is done you'll be
left with your two sets of notes
and you'll work from those to write your
summary
so how do you know what's the main idea
and what's a detail
so you're listening here for big ideas
repeated ideas
many topics think of it in the same way
as we looked at the reading where we saw
words repeated a lot we also heard that
introductory statement which gave us the
main idea of each paragraph
the listening works in a similar way
and when it comes to details you're
listening for specific information like
examples
and facts and statistics
note-taking is definitely a skill that
you need to practice
you'll have you'll be able to develop
your own style using
abbreviations and symbols and pictures
perhaps
let's try it out together now i'm going
to play the lecture and your job is to
write down those three main ideas
and the details so grab a pen and paper
let's do it
despite all of the evidence pointing
towards the dangers of climate change
there are many climate change deniers
today i'm going to give you some
evidence that proves climate change
is real firstly sea levels are
rising several times faster than in the
past 2800 years
and are accelerating because of the
man-made global warming
until the 1880s the fastest rise in sea
levels was about three centimeters to
four centimeters a century plus or minus
a bit
but in the 20th century the world's seas
rose 14 centimeters
the international academy of sciences
said that by 2100 the world's oceans
would rise between
28 and 131 centimeters if seas continue
to rise as projected
it will cause a lot of problems and
expense
secondly studies have found that climate
change is already responsible for
species extinction
in recent observations the um the actual
observed extinction risks were always
worse than the predictions
predictions of the average probability
of extinction ranged from seven to ten
percent
meanwhile the actual analysis of
observations suggested that the
extinction risk is actually worse
ranging from 14 to 15 percent
the proportion of species that will be
threatened by 2100 is a whopping
32 percent based on actual observations
the number of species going extinct in
response to the changing climate
outstrip the predictions now and they'll
continue to do so
well into the future now finally i'll
talk about
ocean acidity for tens of millions of
years
earth's oceans have maintained a
relatively stable acidity level
but research shows that this ancient
balance is being undone by a recent and
rapid drop in surface ph
that could have devastating global
consequences
since the beginning of the industrial
revolution in the early 1800s
fossil fuel-powered machines have driven
an unprecedented burst of human industry
and advancement
scientists now know that about half of
this is man-made co2
that has been absorbed over time by the
oceans
new research is finding that the
introduction of massive amounts of co2
into the seas
is altering water chemistry and
affecting the life cycles of many marine
organ
organisms particularly those at the
lower end of the food chain it has been
proven to inhibit
shell growth in marine animals and is
suspected to cause reproductive
disorders in some fish
so is climate change a myth the facts
show otherwise
so how did you go did you catch those
main points did you catch some of those
details
i'll show you my notes now now they're
probably going to look completely
different to your notes but
let's see if we caught basically the
same information
so just like in the reading there were
three main ideas and in fact
the same ideas in the same order rising
sea levels
wildlife extinction ocean acidity but
the details were quite
different so regarding rising sea levels
she said
they've been rising more in the 20th
century compared with the 1800s
and they're continued to rise continued
projections that they're going to rise
rather
which will lead to problems and expense
in terms of wildlife extinction actual
extinctions
are more than predicted so again this is
quite a contrast to what we
read the third point is ocean acidity
so the speaker said the cha there has
been a change in the oceans
ph balance which has altered water
chemistry
and that this has a serious effect on
sea life so because we made such good
notes when doing the reading
this was quite easy to do hopefully you
found that you can find the connection
between those three points
and that's what it's all about in this
task next we're going to practice
putting it all together in our summary
so that's how we write notes for the
listening part of
integrated writing for more practice
make sure you log on to e2language.com
click on the writing section integrated
writing task and do the practice
activities there